‪["Woza Mntana" playing]
‪[Jonasi] Joyce!
‪Joyce!
‪[singsongy] Joyce!
‪[grunts]
‪[sighing] Yo.
‪Are you okay?
‪Yeah. I'm all right.
‪Joyce!
‪Should I go and call her. sir?
‪No. no.
‪Okay.
‪-Thank you.
‪-Yes. sir.
‪You know… [chuckles]
‪…I was starting to think
‪that nobody loves me around here anymore.
‪Just a moment. Hmm?
‪Come. Come sit down.
‪[music ends]
‪Sit down. my love.
‪There we go.
‪Perfect.
‪-Mmm.
‪-[Joyce sighs]
‪[Jonasi] Mm-hmm.
‪[grunts] Gesh.
‪Did Jonasi do this?
‪[dramatic music playing]
‪Yeah. it was Jonasi.
‪As if what he did wasn't enough.
‪your brother went
‪and froze all of my accounts.
‪I can't even buy myself
‪a fucking bottle of wine.
‪When last have you and I had breakfast?
‪Just the two of us?
‪[Joyce] I'm not hungry.
‪Uh-uh.
‪We can't waste food.
‪So much effort has been put in by Ntombi.
‪Joyce.
‪[gasps] I was thinking…
‪we need to reignite our spark. you know?
‪Because it's on fire. hotter than ever.
‪[scoffs]
‪Let's bring joy back into this home.
‪Bring light.
‪Hmm?
‪Do you remember
‪the conversations we used to have
‪and you said you wanted
‪to renovate here. in our kitchen?
‪Now's the time.
‪Let's do that. my love.
‪The two of us.
‪J and J.
‪Relax. I got you some groceries.
‪[sighs]
‪This is Essie's allowance.
‪but don't worry.
‪I'll sort it out myself.
‪Until you two fix things. Okay?
‪Thank you.
‪But I don't think your brother and I
‪will ever be okay after what he did to me.
‪[phone buzzes. chimes]
‪Oh. [chuckles]
‪[sighs]
‪[scoffs]
‪[scoffing]
‪[tense music playing]
‪Give me your hand.
‪[scoffs]
‪[Matipa] ‪Jonasi
‪wanted to kill me.
‪Jonasi wanted to end me. Magesh.
‪I'll never forget that.
‪I chose the wrong brother. didn't I?
‪[horn honking]
‪♪ ‪Hello. hello. hello. Sarafina‪ ♪
‪[both giggle]
‪Guess what I have for you?
‪I don't know.
‪Ta-da!
‪-Uncle! No ways!
‪-Uh-huh.
‪[gasps] Thank you.
‪I don't want you to embarrass me
‪walking around campus with an old laptop.
‪I have bought you the best.
‪You want them to know
‪exactly who they're dealing with.
‪-They must respect you.
‪-Yes.
‪-Never let them breathe.
‪-[laughs]
‪-They must respect you.
‪-[phone buzzes. chimes]
‪Uh. Sarah. it looks like
‪I have to get back to work.
‪[sighs] Please don't leave yet. Uncle.
‪Why's that?
‪The thing is
‪I don't know how this laptop works.
‪Please help me set it up and get it going.
‪Okay. okay. okay.
‪But this needs to be quick. Very quick.
‪Okay. thank you. Let me tidy up.
‪All right.
‪[groans]
‪Yep. Let's have a look.
‪Aha!
‪Baby girl. there you have it. All done.
‪[chuckles] I love it. Thank you so much.
‪Good. But there's only one thing
‪I need from you.
‪Distinctions.
‪You must pass. okay?
‪I worked hard to get this for you.
‪I promise you'll be proud of me.
‪I don't doubt that.
‪-[chuckles]
‪-Good.
‪Ah.
‪I want to thank you
‪for loving me and seeing me
‪and for everything you do for me.
‪My child. you make it so easy to love you.
‪-[chuckles]
‪-You're a very good and respectful child.
‪-Thank you.
‪-[chuckles]
‪[dramatic music playing]
‪What are you doing?
‪-[Menzi] Damn it!
‪-[Freedom] Hey. come on. man.
‪-You're getting sand in my eyes.
‪-Then go stand over there.
‪-[chuckles] You're crazy.
‪-You'll see. I'll get you.
‪-You're even missing.
‪-[Freedom chuckles]
‪Hey. you idiots.
‪what are doing over there?
‪Ah. he's full of it.
‪Yes. boss.
‪Sorry about that.
‪We were just clearing up the area.
‪What are you doing? Stop throwing stones.
‪Do you know who you're fucking talking to?
‪-And who are you?
‪-Huh?
‪-Menzi. Wait.
‪-Wait. Don't stop me. Don't stop me.
‪-You know who you're talking to?
‪-Who?
‪Do you know Menzi Gomora?
‪-Hey. guys. Seriously. stop it.
‪-I'm gonna slap you. man.
‪I said don't stop me.
‪Who you calling an idiot?
‪Hey. hey. man! Have you lost it?
‪What's wrong with you?
‪-So you wanna fight me? Get out of my way.
‪-Wait. Menzi!
‪-You wanna fight? Oh. you wanna fight!
‪-Menzi!
‪Hey. you two!
‪What do you think you're doing?
‪Hey. stop it!
‪-Hey. man! What is going on with you boys?
‪-[Menzi grunts]
‪What's wrong?
‪-Get your hands off me!
‪-Why are you hitting him? I'll slap you.
‪-I'll fuck you up. do you hear me. stupid?
‪-[builders clamoring]
‪-[Freedom] Get the fuck out of my face.
‪-[foreman] I'll fuck you up!
‪[Freedom] And you.
‪what the hell is your problem?
‪[foreman]
‪Don't be asking some dumb shit.
‪-[upbeat music playing]
‪-[chattering. laughing]
‪Damn. They so slow.
‪I might as well drink my own pee. Wow.
‪[sighs]
‪Why the long face? What's going on?
‪You said it was urgent.
‪Something happened. Essie.
‪[Essie] What?
‪Happened to who?
‪-To Jonasi?
‪-Mm-mmm.
‪What happened?
‪It's Sarah.
‪Oh. please. don't tell me she went
‪and embarrassed me with Joyce again.
‪I don't think
‪I can handle something like that again.
‪No. no.
‪[stammers] It's not that.
‪What did she do?
‪Would you just spit it out?
‪Hey. What are you doing?
‪What's this shit you're doing?
‪Piss off!
‪[sighs] Oh. this child.
‪I thought I was raising a child.
‪but I'm raising a slut.
‪Ooh! These kids are going to kill me.
‪I'm telling you. diabetes won't kill me.
‪these kids will.
‪She makes Jezebel look innocent.
‪But trying to kiss you?
‪You're like her father!
‪That's like trying to kiss Jonasi.
‪That's it. That's it.
‪That's where the problem starts.
‪You and Jonasi.
‪The two of you need to talk to her.
‪She's acting out now because of you two.
‪Goodness me.
‪-I just got a headache. Oh.
‪-Ma'am. I'm sorry it took so long.
‪Why you so damn slow. man?
‪Just bring something stronger.
‪This is useless.
‪Damn it!
‪[Jonasi sighs] What now?
‪[Essie. on phone]
‪Please can you come home?
‪Please. Sarah needs you.
‪[Jonasi] What is it?
‪Ah. I can't talk about this
‪over the phone.
‪I'll explain when you're here.
‪Okay. I'll come.
‪Jonasi. it's important. Please come.
‪I'm being sincere.
‪I said I'm coming.
‪Okay.
‪Wow.
‪-[call ends]
‪-[Joyce] ‪Aren't you so cute? Hey?
‪-So sweet. So sweet.
‪-[cooing]
‪Yeah.
‪Not yet tainted
‪by the ugliness of this world.
‪Yeah.
‪[giggles]
‪-[baby cries]
‪-[Joyce shushes]
‪Joyce.
‪What happened to your eye?
‪-Ntombi.
‪-[Ntombi] Ma'am?
‪Come here. please.
‪-Listen.
‪-[Ntombi] Yes. ma'am.
‪Please take the babies.
‪-Okay. Okay.
‪-[fussing]
‪Let's go with Auntie.
‪Please take them to the playroom
‪and sit with them in there.
‪-Yes. ma'am.
‪-Okay.
‪-Let's go. Let's go with Auntie.
‪-[fussing]
‪-I'm sorry. my babies.
‪-[shushes]
‪[Ntombi] Oh. sorry. my girls.
‪Come. Come. my girls.
‪[emotional music playing]
‪Joyce.
‪First time he's done something like this
‪since I've known him.
‪I don't know. Matipa. he just changed.
‪He turned into an animal.
‪-[both grunt]
‪-It's like he was possessed.
‪[breathes shakily]
‪[sniffles]
‪Matipa.
‪[sobs]
‪-[breathing shakily]
‪-Oh. no.
‪[grunts. sighs]
‪[sniffles. groans]
‪Jonasi did all of this?
‪[zips jacket]
‪[breathes heavily]
‪He did it with his belt buckle.
‪[gasps]
‪And the more I cried. the harder he hit.
‪[distorted screaming]
‪You should go to the hospital.
‪And get a doctor and get a checkup.
‪Matipa. you're badly hurt.
‪I don't want to go to the hospital.
‪[sighs]
‪Joyce. there's no doctor who can fix
‪what Jonasi has done to me.
‪-[Joyce sighs]
‪-[sniffles]
‪[sobs. sniffles]
‪Joyce.
‪Um… [clears throat]
‪Can I leave Ashley and Hayley with you?
‪I need to. um. run a few errands.
‪That's fine.
‪I told you this is their home.
‪I'll take care of them.
‪I sent Auntie away.
‪That's understandable.
‪I'll see you later. [breathes shakily]
‪-Okay.
‪-[knocks on door]
‪[Magesh] Knock-knock.
‪Joyce.
‪[Matipa sniffles]
‪You said it's urgent.
‪-Magesh.
‪-Hmm?
‪I've known you for years now.
‪And in all those years.
‪you're always defending your brother.
‪protecting him.
‪hiding things from me.
‪Do you want someone to die?
‪What needs to happen after this?
‪Do you want me to die? Or Matipa?
‪Magesh.
‪What kind of a man are you?
‪[Essie] ‪Jonasi? Where are you?
‪You said you'd be here two hours ago.
‪I've been waiting for you.
‪Sarah also needs you.
‪Please call me.
‪You should be here by now. Please.
‪["Mdali" playing]
‪-[sighs] Let's go.
‪-To where. Mom? What going on?
‪-Tell me.
‪-Let's go.
‪-Mom.
‪-Sarah. come.
‪Brother.
‪[traditional healer grunts]
‪Speak to me. Manzini ancestors.
‪[grunting]
‪Hey. talk to me. Manzini ancestors.
‪What's going on?
‪When I look at this.
‪I see a family full of challenges.
‪Here. There it is.
‪[sighs]
‪What's going on here?
‪Hmm?
‪What's all this?
‪-You're leaving. Jonasi.
‪-Excuse me?
‪It's over between us.
‪Nothing's over. This is my house.
‪[traditional healer]
‪They also mention secrets.
‪Then all of these family secrets
‪eventually affect you. my child.
‪Because you are giving love to someone
‪who doesn't care about you.
‪Brother. can you see
‪how disrespectful she is?
‪-Move. Joyce.
‪-This is what I'm talking about.
‪Listen here.
‪You've hurt her enough.
‪-You've abused this woman.
‪-Excuse me?
‪You heard me.
‪Leave.
‪That's it.
‪It's true. Makos.
‪I also think
‪that's where the main problem lies.
‪That's why we need your help.
‪to remove this curse
‪and to remove this dark cloud upon her.
‪-[grunts] Ay.
‪-[Essie] We agree.
‪From what I see. the bones are saying.
‪"Mm-mmm. there's no curse. Mama."
‪The only problem is that
‪her father continues to neglect her.
‪-[music ends]
‪-Are you sleeping with my wife?
‪Don't tell me shit.
‪I'm not talking shit.
‪You're sleeping with my wife.
‪Piss off.
‪-Who are you pushing? Who are you pushing?
‪-Who do you think you are?
‪I'll show you.
‪Hey. hey. hey. Brother. let go of me!
‪-I said let me go. Brother.
‪-Get out.
‪-Brother. we both--
‪-We've had enough.
‪-It's enough.
‪-Brother. let me go. Brother.
‪-You're hurting me.
‪-Piss off.
‪Get out of here. you asshole.
‪[gate closes]
‪What are you doing?
‪[traditional healer]
‪What's going to help you. my child.
‪is if you focus solely on your own life.
‪You'll never get the apology you desire
‪from your father.
‪[Magesh] ‪I'm done defending you.
‪-That's enough.
‪-[Jonasi] You'll regret this. You hear me?
‪-[Magesh] You disrespectful--
‪-[Jonasi] You're going to regret this.
‪-What are you doing?
‪-[Magesh] Just piss off.
‪[Jonasi] What are you doing?
‪You two need me. You need me.
‪-You're nothing without me.
‪-[Magesh] Just leave!
‪Joyce. what are you doing?
‪Brother?
‪Piss off. Jonasi.
‪[Jonasi]
‪You're locking me out of my own house?
‪[Magesh] Piss off.
‪[panting]
‪[Essie] Oh. you know.
‪sometimes I think perhaps
‪I wasn't meant to have kids
‪because I'm a terrible mother.
‪-Mm-mmm. Mm-mmm.
‪-[car door opens]
‪-Don't talk like that. my love.
‪-[car door closes]
‪You are a great mother.
‪MaQwabe.
‪Go and tell Freedom to come get my--
‪Where have you been?
‪What's going on here?
‪Are you cheating on me. MaQwabe?
‪-Wow! Don't disrespect me.
‪-I'm disrespecting you?
‪How many times have I called you?
‪You ain't answering!
‪What did you think was going to happen?
‪Listen. Jonasi.
‪this thing needs to be fed.
‪-Huh?
‪-When you out there sleeping around.
‪who's fulfilling my needs. huh?
‪A few strokes from this boy
‪and you're talking to me like that?
‪You're shouting at me?
‪He gives me amazing strokes.
‪I'll smack you.
‪Hey. hey. hey.
‪[Jonasi] Boy--
‪[suspenseful music playing]
‪You heard what she said. right?
‪So get the fuck out of this house.
‪[Essie] Leave. Go back to Joyce.
‪[scoffs]
‪[Jonasi scoffs]
‪[clicks tongue]
‪-Thank you. baby.
‪-Are you okay. my love?
‪-[crickets chirping]
‪-[dog barking]
‪[Menzi] Mom. what's wrong?
‪Ntombi told me to come here.
‪She said it was urgent.
‪[Joyce sighs]
‪Yeah.
‪[sighs] What happened to you?
‪[sighs] Uh. it's nothing.
‪You're the one I'm worried about here.
‪Your father left this house today.
‪I kicked him out of this house for good.
‪What?
‪[sighs] Ma. we both know
‪what's going on here.
‪He's going to come back
‪and ask for forgiveness
‪and you'll comply and do what he says.
‪-Mm-mmm.
‪-And you're gonna allow it.
‪That won't happen again.
‪Never.
‪Too much has happened. Menzi.
‪I hear you. Mom.
‪-We'll be okay.
‪-[twins fussing]
‪-[Ntombi] Oh. Ma'am…
‪-Hmm?
‪Where is their mother?
‪I want to prepare Nkazi for bed.
‪Wow.
‪Wait. Shouldn't Matipa be back
‪by now already?
‪She said she'd be gone only a few hours
‪and took the whole day?
‪-[baby cries]
‪-[Menzi] Oh. don't cry.
‪Come to your brother.
‪Come to your brother. okay?
‪-[Joyce] Goodness.
‪-[dialing]
‪Hi. this is Matipa.
‪I'm not available right now.
‪Please leave a message.
‪Her phone goes straight to voicemail. Wow.
‪Wait. [clears throat]
‪-Here's your brother. brother. brother.
‪-[Joyce] Please bring her to me.
‪-[baby laughs]
‪-We still have their formula. right?
‪Yes. we do. ma'am.
‪-Prepare it.
‪-[Menzi] Hello. baby.
‪I'll check if they have enough diapers.
‪Babies. doesn't your mother know
‪she should be back by now?
‪Honestly. doesn't she know that as soon as
‪the sun sets. babies want their mother?
‪-Hmm?
‪-Don't cry. okay?
‪-[cries]
‪-[Joyce shushes]
‪-Uh. ma'am.
‪-[Joyce] Hello. baby.
‪-[Joyce] Hmm?
‪-There's a letter here addressed to you.
‪Addressed to me?
‪[Ntombi] I think it's from their mother.
‪-Give it to me.
‪-Okay.
‪[baby fussing]
‪-[Menzi] Huh. "Dear Joyce."
‪-Hmm?
‪"After everything that's happened
‪between myself and Jonasi.
‪I don't ever want to see him again."
‪-[Matipa] ‪I've decided to rebuild my life.
‪-[sobbing. wailing]
‪-‪And start over.
‪-‪[Menzi]‪ "And start over.
‪-But…"
‪-[wailing continues]
‪[Matipa] ‪But I'm not able to do that
‪with my children.
‪Oh. wow.
‪-[Matipa] ‪Please take care of them.
‪-"Please take care of them."
‪[Matipa]
‪I know they'll be safe in your hands.
‪[sniffles]
‪I'm sorry for everything. Matipa.
‪[baby fussing]
‪[baby crying]
‪Okay. Don't cry. don't cry.
‪Matipa.
‪[sobbing]
‪["ukuthanda wena" playing]
‪[sniffling. breathing shakily]
‪[ring clinks]
‪[sobbing continues]